add blog about ui-demo (#757)
smart-data-lake/smart-data-lake: blog/2023-11-09-UI-Demo/2023-11-09-UI-Demo.md

---
title: Exciting News! Introducing Our New UI Tool for Data Catalog Visualization
description: Data Pipeline Visualization Tool
slug: sdl-uidemo
authors:
  - name: Shasha Jiang
    url: https://github.com/dust629
tags: [DataCatalog, DataVisualization, DataFlow, DataLineage, DataManagement, DataPipeline, TechRevolution, GitHub OpenSource]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

> We are thrilled to announce the launch of our new [UI tool](https://ui-demo.smartdatalake.ch/) designed to revolutionize the way visualize, track, and manage data flow! This extension of SDLB  acts as a user-friendly data catalog that showcases dependencies through a DAG, along with metadata for data objects and actions. Our UI tool is a step forward in data pipeline management, providing enhanced visibility and control. Whether you are a data engineer, analyst, or scientist, this tool will enhance your workflow management experience, allowing you to optimize processes and achieve exceptional results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are thrilled to announce the launch of our new [UI tool](https://ui-demo.smartdatalake.ch/) designed to revolutionize the way we visualize, track, and manage data pipelines! This addition to SDLB acts as a user-friendly technical data catalog that showcases dependencies through a graph, along with metadata about data pipeline execution (workflows). Our UI tool is a step forward in data pipeline management, providing enhanced visibility and control. Whether you are a data engineer, analyst, or scientist, this tool will enhance your abilities to management data pipelines, allowing you to be more productive and achieve exceptional results.

```

<!--truncate-->

## 🌟 Explore Our UI Tool in Action

> Now Check out our [UI-Demo](https://ui-demo.smartdatalake.ch/), where the data pipeline in the [getting-started](../../docs/getting-started/setup) section with the part 3 [config file](../../docs/getting-started/config-examples/application-part3-with-meatdata.conf) is used as an example for our UI tool. Witness firsthand how our tool simplifies data pipeline management and enhances your workflow efficiency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now Check out our [UI-Demo](https://ui-demo.smartdatalake.ch/), where the data pipeline from the [getting-started](../../docs/getting-started/setup) section part 3 [config file](../../docs/getting-started/config-examples/application-part3-with-meatdata.conf) is used as show case. 
```
In my opinion the last sentence "Witness firsthand how our tool simplifies data pipeline management and enhances your workflow efficiency." is too much / repetitive...

Author: I agree, the last sentence will be deleted.

![home](home.png "UI Homepage")
<!--truncate-->

Thanks to its user-friendly interface and powerful features, managing complex workflows has never been easier.

## 📊 Comprehensive Workflow Dashboard

> Get a bird's eye view of your entire workflow! Our intuitive dashboard visualizes intricate details for each run, including execution time, duration, and the feed used. Dive deep into the timeline of  involved actions, with the ability to access detailed data by simply clicking on each action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get a bird's eye view of your entire workflow! Our intuitive dashboard visualizes intricate details for each run, including execution time, duration, and the feed configuration used. Deep dive into the timeline of involved actions, with the ability to access detailed data by simply clicking on each action.
```

![Timeline of Action](timeline.png "Timeline of Action: Description or Caption")

## 🔍 Config Viewer with Rich Content

> Explore an expansive Config Viewer that contains all the information from your config file. And extra information you provide as documentation. You can find:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explore an expansive Configuration Viewer that contains all the information from your config file, and extra information you provide as documentation. You can find:

```

* ###  Markdown Descriptions:

>   Our tool supports markdown files as descriptions, enabling you to add detailed information about actions or objects. These descriptions can include images, hyperlinks, and other formatting options, serve as excellent documentation, aiding your understanding of the workflow's structure and function. Moreover, you can utilize descriptions to add labels by incorporating metadata in the config file, enhancing organization and clarity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  SDLB supports creating descriptions as markdown files, enabling you to provide detailed information about actions or objects. These descriptions can include images, hyperlinks, and other formatting options. They serve as excellent documentation that is versionned together with your code, aiding your understanding of the workflow's structure and function. Moreover, you can utilize tags to enhance organization and clarity.

```

>   ![descirption](btl-distance-des.png "Description of dataobject btl-disctance")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ![description](btl-distance-des.png "Description of dataobject btl-distance")

```

>   ![metadata-label](config-int_airports.png "Config view of int-airports with ID in Green and Labels from meatadata in brown ")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ![metadata-label](config-int_airports.png "Config view of int-airports with ID in Green and Labels from metadata in brown ")

```

  

* ### Clear Visualization of Transformations:

>   For actions involving transformations, our tool provides clear visualizations within the configuration. Easily comprehend input and output data for each action, with seamless links to corresponding data objects. This feature simplifies the understanding of complex data transformations, ensuring transparency and efficiency in your workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For actions involving transformations, our tool provides clear visualizations within the configuration. Easily comprehend input and output data for each action, with seamless links to corresponding data objects. This feature simplifies the understanding of complex data transformations, ensuring transparency about the business logic applied.

```

![transformer](transformer.png "Action View of historize-airports")

* ### Data Lineage Graph:

>   Track and understand the flow of data objects across various processing stages with our built-in lineage feature. Visualize the relationships between data objects and actions involved in your data pipeline, empowering you to monitor the data's journey and make informed decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Track and understand the flow of data across various processing stages with our built-in lineage feature. Visualize the dependencies between data objects and actions involved in your data pipeline, empowering you to monitor the data's journey and answer questions about the impact of changes.

```

>   ![lineage](config-int_airports_lineage.png "Lineage of dataobject int-airports with invloved action id")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ![lineage](config-int_airports_lineage.png "Lineage of dataobject int-airports with involved action id")

```

> Don't miss out on this game-changing tool! Embrace the future of data pipeline visualization and empower your team with the insights they need to excel. Get started today and explore the tool now on our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/smart-data-lake/sdl-visualization) and revolutionize the way you manage data pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't miss out on this game-changing tool for developing data pipelines with SDLB efficiently! Embrace our future of data pipeline visualization and empower your team with this simple but powerful tool. Get started today and following the installation guide on our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/smart-data-lake/sdl-visualization) and revolutionize the way you manage data pipelines.

```

---
title: Exciting News! Introducing Our New UI Tool for Data Catalog Visualization
description: Data Pipeline Visualization Tool
slug: sdl-uidemo
authors:
  - name: Shasha Jiang
    url: https://github.com/dust629

> tags: [DataCatalog, DataVisualization, DataFlow, DataLineage, DataManagement, DataPipeline, TechRevolution, GitHub OpenSource]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tags: [DataCatalog, DataVisualization, DataFlow, DataLineage, DataManagement, DataPipeline, GitHub OpenSource]

```

hide_table_of_contents: false
---

> We are thrilled to announce the launch of our new [UI tool](https://ui-demo.smartdatalake.ch/) designed to revolutionize the way we visualize, track, and manage data pipelines! This addition to SDLB acts as a user-friendly technical data catalog that showcases dependencies through a graph, along with metadata about data pipeline execution (workflows). Our UI tool is a step forward in data pipeline management, providing enhanced visibility and control. Whether you are a data engineer, analyst, or scientist, this tool will enhance your abilities to management data pipelines, allowing you to be more productive and achieve exceptional results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are thrilled to announce the launch of our new [UI tool](https://ui-demo.smartdatalake.ch/) designed to revolutionize the way we visualize, track, and manage data pipelines! This addition to SDLB acts as a user-friendly technical data catalog that showcases dependencies through a graph, along with metadata about data pipeline execution (workflows). Our UI tool is a step forward in data pipeline management, providing enhanced visibility and control. Whether you are a data engineer, analyst, or scientist, this tool will enhance your abilities to manage data pipelines, allowing you to be more productive and achieve exceptional results.

```

<!--truncate-->

## 🌟 Explore Our UI Tool in Action

Now Check out our [UI-Demo](https://ui-demo.smartdatalake.ch/), where the data pipeline from the [getting-started](../../docs/getting-started/setup) section part 3 [config file](../../docs/getting-started/config-examples/application-part3-with-metadata.conf) is used as show case. 

![home](home.png "UI Homepage")
<!--truncate-->

Thanks to its user-friendly interface and powerful features, managing complex workflows has never been easier.

## 📊 Comprehensive Workflow Dashboard
Get a bird's eye view of your entire workflow! Our intuitive dashboard visualizes intricate details for each run, including execution time, duration, and the feed configuration used. Deep dive into the timeline of involved actions, with the ability to access detailed data by simply clicking on each action.
![Timeline of Action](timeline.png "Timeline of Action: Description or Caption")

## 🔍 Config Viewer with Rich Content
Explore an expansive Configuration Viewer that contains all the information from your config file, and extra information you provide as documentation. You can find:

* ###  Markdown Descriptions:

>   SDLB supports creating descriptions as markdown files, enabling you to provide detailed information about actions or objects. These descriptions can include images, hyperlinks, and other formatting options. They serve as excellent documentation that is versionned together with your code, aiding your understanding of the workflow's structure and function. Moreover, you can utilize tags to enhance organization and clarity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  SDLB supports creating descriptions as markdown files, enabling you to provide detailed information about actions or objects. These descriptions can include images, hyperlinks, and other formatting options. They serve as excellent documentation that is versioned together with your code, aiding your understanding of the workflow's structure and function. Moreover, you can utilize tags to enhance organization and clarity.

```
